---
slug: wayland
title: Wayland is just Painful
authors: ant
tags: [wayland, gnome]
---

Wayland is the most painful thing I worked with when developing Qt application,
seriously Wayland is surely not a replacement for Xorg, it simply breaks working
applications.

I know Xorg is old, but still I have no issue using it even though it's slow.

Let's come to the topic, I was struggling to support Spirit for Wayland, at least for
GNOME Shell (Wayland) but it is just so painful. I'm not complaining about getting the
active window under Wayland, that is just fine with a lot of workarounds.

But imagine building your Qt application without using ```move()``` and ```resize()``` methods
in QWidget. For those who don't know about Qt development, these methods are extremely important, 
at least for Spirit.

```move()``` method in the QWidget class allows a QWidget to move to a specific co-ordinate in
the screen, ```resize()``` helps to resize a QWidget to some dimension. Guess what Wayland does
not allow a application to modify it's own position and dimenstion. I mean why?? GNOME developers
claims it's for security reason. 

Without ```move()``` method I can't find a way to move the Spirit window around, without resize
we can't scale. Hell I can't even center my dialog boxes under Wayland.

So the only solution exists is that, use **gnome-shell-extension** and use QProcess to call gdbus
and get active window (which is fine), move our own Spirit widget (not fine, it's just painful)
and resize Spirit widget.

So we have to call system commands to stuff I did with no issue on X11 with Qt framework. So support
for Wayland is going to take a long time folks. I'm sorry.
